doc: transactions (#16807)
strapi/strapi: docs/docs/docs/01-core/database/02-transactions.md

---
title: Transactions
description: Conceptual guide to transactions in Strapi
tags:
  - database
---

> This provides an API to wrap a set of operations in a transaction that ensures the integrity of data.

Reviewer: what is "this"? :) would it be better to say "transactions are an API to wrap..."?

Author: Isn't a bit redundant to say, transactions are an API to wrap transactions?

I would like to say "this" api is used to create transactions.

Would it be better to say, 
`API to wrap a set of poperations in a transaction...`

Reviewer: "An API to wrap a set of operations that ensures the integrity of data."?

Author: sounds good 👍 changing it!

Author: reworded to `An API to wrap a set of operations in a transaction that ensures the integrity of data.`

| `onRollback` | Function to register a callback that will be executed after the transaction is rolled back. |

### Nested transactions

Transactions can be nested. When a transaction is nested, the inner transaction is committed or rolled back when the outer transaction is committed or rolled back.

```js
await strapi.db.transaction(async () => {
  // It will implicitly use the transaction
  await strapi.entityService.create();

  // Nested transactions will implicitly use the outer transaction
  await strapi.db.transaction(async ({}) => {
    await strapi.entityService.create();
  });
});
```

### onCommit and onRollback

The `onCommit` and `onRollback` hooks can be used to execute code after the transaction is committed or rolled back.

```js
await strapi.db.transaction(async ({ onCommit, onRollback }) => {
  // It will implicitly use the transaction
  await strapi.entityService.create();
  await strapi.entityService.create();

  onCommit(() => {
    // This will be executed after the transaction is committed
  });

  onRollback(() => {
    // This will be executed after the transaction is rolled back
  });
});
```

### Using knex queries

> Transactions can also be used with knex queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transactions can also be used with knex queries, but in that case `.transacting(trx)` must be explicitly called.
```

```js
await strapi.db.transaction(async ({ trx, rollback, commit }) => {
  await knex('users').where('id', 1).update({ name: 'foo' }).transacting(trx);
});
```

## When to use transactions

Transactions should be used in cases where multiple operations should be executed together and their execution is dependent on each other. For example, when creating a new user, the user should be created in the database and a welcome email should be sent to the user. If the email fails to send, the user should not be created in the database.

## When not to use transactions

> Transactions should not be used for small or simple sets of operations since it can result in performance penalties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transactions should not be used for operations that are not dependent on each other since it can result in performance penalties.
```

## Potential problems of transactions

Performing multiple operations within a transaction can lead to locking, which can block the execution of transactions from other processes until the original transaction is complete.

> Furthermore, transactions can stall if they are not committed or rolled back appropriately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, transactions can stall if they are not committed or rolled back appropriately.

For example, if a transaction is opened but there is a path in your code that does not close it, the transaction will be left open indefinitely and could cause instability until your server is restarted and the connection is forced to close. These issues can be difficult to debug, so use transactions with care in the cases they are necessary.
```
